The thought of being able to use a different type of linux was very exciting to me, and after thinking about it for a while, I decided to use CentOS. I knew right off the bat things were gonna be a little different just based off the project description,
but I kinda like the thought of a challenge. After creating the instance in Google Cloud I got into the terminal and got to work.

The first thing I needed was Apache, so I went back to my notes and the lecture for reference. I found out that because I'm using CentOS, apt doesn't work so I had to do a little bit of research. Looking around for a bit led me to substituting 'apt' for 'yum'.
Before anything I wanted to update my system so I used this command
sudo yum update
I then needed to install apache, but using the notes and lecture provided I found out that with CentOS it's not called apache, but instead 'httpd', so I used this command to install it.
sudo yum install httpd
Then I needed to start it
sudo systemctl start httpd
'sudo systemctl enable httpd'
After this I wanted to check and make sure everything was enabled and running ok, so I used these commands
'systemctl list-unit-files httpd.service' and 'systemctl status httpd'
It told me everything was up and running so its time to move on.
I wanted to attempt making a web page so I needed w3m. I used this command to get it
'sudo yum install w3m'
and using It i went to my localhost IP adress and saw the apache default webpage for myself (its different in CentOS!!).
But I wanted to change the contents on the page so using the notes I tried to use the nano command to edit the index.html page, but to my surprise the command wasn't working!
After freaking out for a bit I did some research and found a different editor called 'vi'. I had to do research to understand what I was doing in it, but I figured it out and was able to get into the index.html file and add my own things.
After saving and exiting vi, I refreshed the apache web page and it was the web page of my own, everything worked!\

The next thing I needed was PHP, so I used the command
'sudo yum install php' and I restarted apache by using 'sudo systemctl restart httpd'
I then wanted to check and make sure the install was working, so I created an info.php file in the /var/www/html/ directory, edited it with vi, checked it on my browser, and everything worked!
I then needed to configure and to do that I needed to find the 'dir.conf' file, which took me a minute because it's different on CentOS!
Instead of the directory in the notes, I went to '/etc/httpd/conf/' which is where I found the 'httpd.conf' file. Using vi I edited the file to put index.php in front of index.html.
I then needed my index.php file, so I went to the '/var/www/html/' directory and using vi I created an index.php file with the contents from our notes and lecture.
After saving, I went back to my browser to see if it worked, and it did!

I then needed MariaDB, so I used the command
'sudo apt install mariadb-server mariadb-client'
I then followed the notes all the way up to where we needed to log into mariaDB where I ran into a roadblock. CentOS was telling me Mariadb wasn't a command, so after some research I found out I needed to
use the command 'mysql -u root -p' which then allowed me to go right in.
After editing and creating tables in the databases, I set up a regular user account just like in the notes.
I then needed to install mysql, so I used the command
'sudo yum install php-mysql'
I then restared apache and MariaDB and continued.
The only other roadblock I encountered was when I needed to use the command 'sudo chown :www-data login.php', where it told me that ':www-data' was an invalid group.
After a quick couple searches I found out the syntax is slightly different, so I used 'sudo chown apache:apache login.php' instead and it worked!

The last thing I needed was wordpress itself, but before I did that I needed the php modules for it so I used the command
'sudo apt install php-curl php-xml php-imagick php-mbstring php-zip php-intl' and restarted apache and MariaDB
I then just followed the notes down to the end just like I did before, but when I got to the end and tried to test it, I ran into the biggest roadblock of all.
I refreshed my browser and it tells me my php is out of date, and after everything, I could not get it to work sadly. Everything works but the website itself.
